
                                 Potential
			Frequently Asked Questions
			     about Joeltris 10
			     
			    written by Bisqwit
			   as is the game too...
			     

Q:The screen looks horrible! The game is hardly playable
  on white background! Could you ever have designed this
  more poorly?
A:Don't use terminals which default to white background.
  With xterm, use "xterm -bg black -fg white" and you will
  be satisfied. If you have libggi installed (I recommend
  you to have), use ggi target instead of vt100 target.
  ggi is cool.  

Q:Do you really need to frequently answer to the same questions?
A:No. This file actually consists of answers to _potential_
  frequent questions. All of the questions have not necessarily
  been asked.

Q:Explain the name of the game.
A:The real first name of the author is Joel,
  and this is his tenth tetris-game.
  
Q:Why isn't it Bisqtris then?
A:Historical reasons. There exist nine other Joeltrises already.

Q:I haven't seen any of Joeltris 1..9 in net.
  Do they really exist?
A:"I haven't seen God. Does he exist?"
  Joeltrises 1-9 exist in this archive. They
  should've extracted to the directories jt1-6
  and jt7-9 respectively.
  Well, Joeltrises 1..5 were written with QBasic,
  jt6 was written also with QBasic but for Tandy 1000
  (equipped with 8088 processor).
  Joeltrises 7..9 (Turbo Pascal as language) were each
  independently more or less not good projects, or
  required too much about the development enviroment
  (like X00 fossil driver libraries)... They had
  good ideas anyway (like built-in scripting language,
  which enabled to write a fractal background animation
  in vt100 mode).
  As exception, Joeltris 10 is written in C, PCX and S3M.
  For more details, see http://iki.fi/bisqwit/jt10.html
  which is the homepage of the saga of Joeltris.

Q:Why does the computer moan "damn" etc sometimes?
A:Really? Strange... ;)

Q:A computer player broke laws!
  I saw it! It did an impossible move!
A:Really? Maybe you should try the same. Sometimes
  the space bends around massive gravity fields...

Q:When I play against computer, I see my next block, but
  I don't see the next block of the computer player.
A:That's because the computer player does not use the next
  block information. It plays only one block at a time.
  It would be too expensive to put it calculating the
  possibilities with two sequential blocks.
  The computer players play goodly
  without that information anyway :)

Q:How good are the computer players, actually?
A:In version beta6, when level 13 was the last different
  level and levels above 13 were clones of level 13,
  Dip made score of 250918 with lines 1156 at level 38.
  It took approximately 20 minutes. At the same time,
  my record from two days ago was about 68000.
  Other computer players have not been much tested,
  but they are not so good players. Dat is able to
  get about 13000, Blip about 8000, Dak few hundreds
  and Sim, imitating Microsoft (making windows), less
  than 1000.

Q:Why is the feature xxx missing from this game?
A:Read the ChangeLog file to see if I have ever been planning
  to add the feature xxx to this game. If I haven't, then you
  possibly need to notice me with that to my email address,
  which is bisqwit@iki.fi .

Q:The musics of the game sound familiar...
A:They are from several NES games. Great ones, even :)
  Try audiotest.

Q:The sound effects of the game are poor.
A:Too little innovation maybe has been a reason.
  The sound effects are produced with similar
  technology than the NES hardware includes.
  Try audiotest.

Q:What is the midi thing?
A:You need /dev/sequencer and a midi device
  for that to work.

Q:I have problem xxx installing the game.
A:Did you read the installation instructions?
  Read the file INSTALL.

Q:I run SETI@home clients in my computer, and
  the game is terribly slow and the music chops.
  What to do?
A:Adjust the priority of the SETI@home clients by
  passing -nice 2 parameter to them or starting
  them by command line "nice -2 setiathome".

Q:I am not running any CPU-expensive in my
  computer and the game is terribly slow anyway.
A:Then your hardware is slow. I am sorry.

Q:I don't know what to ask. What should I ask?
A:If that's your problem, meet me in the ircnet
  and ask me personally. If I'm there, I use the
  nick brobisqu or Bisqwit, depending on mystical
  things.
